                    Fourmilab Anvil Tosser and Target

                              User Guide

The Fourmilab Anvil Tosser is a general purpose projectile thrower
which can be used just to blow off steam or in a variety of games,
either single-player or competitive.  Included is a wearable Anvil
Tosser shaped like an anvil which, when aimed with a mouselook view and
clicked, throws a physical anvil in the direction of the mouselook
cursor.  The anvils thrown are physical objects which respond to
gravity and (to a tiny extent—they're anvils!) wind, and exert force on
physical objects they hit.  When an anvil hits another object or the
ground, a star-shaped target marker is placed at the point of impact so
the thrower can see where it hit.  If multiple people in the region are
throwing anvils, each (up to 10) is assigned a unique impact marker
colour.  Impact markers last for 30 seconds after which they are
automatically deleted.

Included with the Anvil Tosser are a target and optional target stand.
When an anvil hits the target, its distance from the bull's eye is used
to calculate a score from 1 to 10.  A “target hit” marker is placed at
the point of impact, with the same colour assigned to the player for
impact markers placed elsewhere.  The target maintains scores for all
players who have hit it in the last five minutes and displays them in a
floating text “leader board” above the target.  In addition, hits on
the target, scores, and range are reported back to the anvil tosser,
and displayed on floating text above it.  Like impact markers, target
hit markers are automatically deleted after 30 seconds.

Land Impact and Permissions

In order to use the anvil thrower and target, you must have access to
land (either your own land, land owned by somebody who allows you to
create objects there [perhaps temporarily], or a public sandbox which
allows object creation and scripts).  The process of throwing anvils,
placing impact markers, and placing hit markers on the target all
create new objects, which require permission (for the person wearing
the thrower for anvils and impact markers, and for the owner of the
target for target hit markers).  Anvils thrown, impact markers, and
target hit markers each have a land impact of 1, but all are temporary
objects which are deleted on impact or after a timed delay.  Hence,
they do not permanently count against the land capacity of the property
where they are created.  The target has a land impact of 1 and the
optional stand (which is purely decorative) has a land impact of 5.
Anvils are automatically deleted if they go “off-world” or fail to hit
anything within 15 seconds.

Throwing Anvils

To throw anvils, simply select the Fourmilab Anvil Tosser in your
inventory and choose “Add”, which will attach it to your avatar's right
hand.  You can now go into “mouselook” mode in your viewer, use the
mouse and/or arrow keys to move the aiming cursor where you like, and
click the mouse button to throw an anvil.  (Details of using mouselook
mode may differ among viewers.)  The anvil is launched in the direction
of the aiming cursor, but as it is affected by gravity (and to a small
extent) by any wind, it will follow a parabolic trajectory.  If you're
throwing the anvil a long distance, you'll have to aim high and “loft”
its trajectory in order to hit your intended target.

Objects (other than the Fourmilab Target, described below) which you
hit, including the ground, are marked with a star-shaped temporary
impact marker to show where you hit.  These are automatically deleted
after 30 seconds.  If more than one person in the vicinity is using an
Anvil Tosser, a different colour will be used for the impact markers
for each individual (up to 10).  If you throw an anvil off the edge of
the world, it will automatically be deleted, as will anvils that do not
hit anything within 15 seconds after being thrown.

In areas which permit pushing of avatars, an anvil's hitting an avatar
will push it in its direction of travel and no impact marker will be
placed.  In areas where pushing is not permitted, hitting an avatar
will be treated identically to an impact on any other non-target
object, placing an impact marker.

The Anvil Tosser and its projectiles and impact markers have no
settings or controls.  If you wish to change something, for example the
speed with which anvils are thrown or the extent they are affected by
gravity (“buoyancy” in Second Life terminology), you can edit the
scripts for the objects, which are supplied with full permissions,
allowing you to modify them as you wish.

If you board and leave a vehicle which takes the mouselook control and
then releases it, or add and remove another attachment that does the
same, the anvil tosser will lose the control and clicking will not toss
an anvil.  If this happens, just touch the anvil to restore the
control.

Throwing Anvils at Physical Objects

Because the anvils are physical objects, they exert force on other
physical objects with which they collide.  You can, for example, create
a physical sphere to serve as a ball, then throw anvils at it to make
it move as you wish.  A challenging game for either two individuals or
teams is “anvil polo”, where the players fly and compete to get the
ball across the opponent's goal line by throwing anvils at it.

Using the Target

The Fourmilab Target co-operates with the Anvil Tosser to provide
scoring and permit competitive games.  You can set up the target or
multiple targets in any locations and orientations you wish.  The
target is accompanied by an optional stand textured to look like wooden
poles.  The stand is purely decorative; the target will work with or
without it.  For convenience, a combined “Fourmilab Target and Stand”
object is included containing both the target and stand.  You can place
and adjust its orientation by performing a group selection of both
target and stand and adjusting as you wish with the “Edit” command in
the viewer.

Once you've set up the target, you can throw anvils at it (both sides
are active) and, when you hit the target, the impact location is marked
with a hemispherical hit marker with the same colour as the impact
markers placed when anvils hit other objects.  A score from 1 to 10 is
computed based on how close you came to the bull's eye.  The target
displays a floating text “leader board” which shows the number of hits
by all avatars who have hit the target in the last five minutes, along
with their total scores and the colours of their hit markers.  Hit
markers are automatically deleted after 30 seconds.  The target
communicates hits back to the avatar who threw the anvil so that the
Anvil Tosser they're wearing can display the number of throws, hits,
and the total score.

The target will also record impacts from other objects, so you may use
it in games with other projectile launchers.  It will maintain the
leader board, but all hits will be marked with an orange marker and hit
numbers and scores will not be communicated back to the launcher.

The target accepts commands sent via local chat, listening by default
on channel 1308 (by legend, the year after William Tell's
marksmanship).  The following commands may be sent by any user who has
hit the target within the last five minutes.

    Clear
        The user's hit count and score are reset to zero, and the user
        is removed from the leader board.  You can also clear the
        scores shown by the target and in the anvil tosser's floating
        text by touching the anvil tosser while you're wearing it.

    Help
        Give the requester a notecard explaining the target commands.

    Scores
        The scores from the leader board are sent back to the user on
        local chat.  This is handy when users are throwing at the
        target from a distance sufficiently far that the floating text
        is not visible to them.

The following commands may be used only by the owner of the target.

    Channel n
        The target will listen for commands on local chat channel n.

    Clear all
        All hits and scores will be reset to zero and the leader board
        removed.

    Restart
        Reset the script.  Everything, including the chat channel
        number on which the target listens, will be reset to their
        default values.  If you manually move, scale, or rotate the
        target with the viewer's “Edit” facility, it's wise to Restart
        the script before using it.

    Set
        Set a variety of variables affecting the behaviour of the target.

            Set bang on/off
                Controls whether the target makes the bang sound when hit.

            Set flash on/off
                Controls whether the target shows an explosion when hit.

            Set legend on/off
                Shows or hides the leader board.  When hidden, a player
                may still see the scores by sending the Scores command.

            Set trace on/off
                Enable debugging output (sent to the owner on local chat)
                intended for developers working on the script.

    Status
        Display a variety of status information, including the target's
        position, the list of known users, the list of those who have
        hit the target in the last five minutes, and the above settings.

Permissions and the Development Kit

Fourmilab Anvil Tosser and Target are delivered with "full
permissions".  Every part of the object, including the scripts, may be
copied, modified, and transferred without any restrictions whatsoever.
If you find a bug and fix it, or add a feature, let me know so I can
include it for others to use.  The distribution includes a "Development
Kit" directory, which includes all of the textures used in the models.
A generic anvil mesh object without any script is included in case
that's what you need for a build.

The Development Kit directory contains a Logs subdirectory which
includes the development narratives for the project.  If you wonder,
"Why does it work that way?" the answer may be there.

Source code for this project is maintained on and available from the
GitHub repository:
    https://github.com/Fourmilab/anvil_tosser
There you will find the definition files for the mesh model of the
anvil (both full and reduced resolution) in DAE format.

Acknowledgements

    The anvil mesh is based upon a Blender model of an anvil:
        https://www.blendswap.com/blend/20662
    developed by Alan Shukan:
        https://www.blendswap.com/profile/278192
    and used under a Creative Commons CC-BY license.

    The sound effects are free clips available from:
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/
    The "whoosh" sound when an anvil is tossed is derived from "Fishing
    Rod Whoosh 02" (SFX 41498159):
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/product/fishing-rod-whoosh-02/
    The sound when an anvil hits an object other than the target is
    derived from "Balloon Explode" (SFX 43561988):
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/product/balloon-explode-01/
    The sound when an anvil hits the target is extracted from "Cartoon
    Bomb Explosion 01" (SFX 43132584):
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/product/cartoon-bomb-explosion-01/
    All of these effects are © Copyright Finnolia Productions Inc. and
    distributed under the Standard License:
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/content/license/
    The sound clips were prepared for use in this object with
    the Audacity sound editor on Linux.

License

This product (software, documents, images, and models) is licensed
under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License.
    http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode
You are free to copy and redistribute this material in any medium or
format, and to remix, transform, and build upon the material for any
purpose, including commercially.  You must give credit, provide a link
to the license, and indicate if changes were made.  If you remix,
transform, or build upon this material, you must distribute your
contributions under the same license as the original.

The anvil mesh and sound effects are licensed as described above in the
Acknowledgements section.
