                           Fourmilab Target

                              User Guide

The Fourmilab Target can be used with any kind of projectile.  It
co-operates with the Anvil Tosser to provide scoring and permit
competitions.  You can set up the target or multiple targets in any
locations and orientations you wish.

Once you've set up the target, you can toss anvils toward it and, when
you hit the target, the impact location is marked with a hemispherical
hit marker with a different colour for each person throwing anvils.  A
score from 1 to 10 is computed based on how close you hit to the bull's
eye.  The target displays a floating text “leader board” which shows
the number of hits by all avatars who have hit the target in the last
five minutes, along with their total scores and the colour of their hit
markers.  Hit markers are automatically deleted after 30 seconds.  The
target communicates hits back to the Anvil Tosser so that it can
display the number of throws, hits, and the total score from hits in
floating text.

The target will also record impacts from other objects, so you may use
it in games with other projectile launchers.  It will maintain the
leader board, but scores will not be communicated back to the launcher.

The target accepts commands sent via local chat, listening by default
on channel 1308 (by legend, the year after William Tell's
marksmanship). The following commands may be sent by any user who has
hit the target within the last five minutes.

    Clear
        The user's hit count and score are reset to zero, and the user
        is removed from the leader board.  You can also clear the
        scores shown by the target and in the anvil tosser's floating
        text by touching the anvil tosser while you're wearing it.

    Help
        Give this notecard to the requester.

    Scores
        The scores from the leader board are sent back to the user on
        local chat.  This is handy when users are aiming at the target
        from a distance sufficiently far that the floating text is not
        visible to them.

The following commands may be used only by the owner of the target.

    Channel n
        The target will listen for commands on local chat channel n. If
        you're setting up multiple targets, it's best to choose a
        different channel for each to avoid confusion

    Clear all
        All hits and scores will be reset to zero and the leader board
        removed.

    Restart
        Reset the script.  Everything, including the chat channel
        number on which the target listens, will be reset to their
        default values.  If you manually move, scale, or rotate the
        target with the viewer's “Edit” facility, it's wise to Restart
        the script before using it.

    Set
        Set a variety of variables affecting the behaviour of the target.

            Set bang on/off
                Controls whether the target makes the bang sound when hit.

            Set flash on/off
                Controls whether the target shows an explosion when hit.

            Set legend on/off
                Shows or hides the leader board.  When hidden, a player
                may still see the scores by sending the Scores command.

            Set trace on/off
                Enable debugging output (sent to the owner on local chat)
                intended for developers working on the script.

    Status
        Display a variety of status information, including the target's
        position, the list of known users, the list of those who have
        hit the target in the last five minutes, and the above settings.

The Target has a menu which may be displayed by touching the target at
any point.  The menu allows submitting many of the chat commands
described above.  If the target is touched by a user other than its
owner, only the commands available to non-owners will be shown in the
menu.
